I've worked with four YouTube
consultants now. All of them told me to
go and copy what works. You're the first
person to say, "What would you do if
your YouTube channel blew up and then
suddenly the views started to decrease
month after month?" Well, this is Will
Brown and 18 months ago his videos were
getting insane views. But recently, he
started to question everything and his
views as a result took a bit of a dip.
So, he came to me and said, "Ed, can I
pay you $1,500 for a half an hour
conversation to help me?" and I said,
"No, you can't." Because too many people
have the same issues that he has on his
channel. So, I came back with a counter
offer and said, "I'll do it for free if
you let me record the call and put it on
my channel so others can learn, too."
And he said, "Let's do it." So, in this
video, I'm going to show you what
actually matters when it comes to
growing a channel. We are going to look
at the deep foundational things that get
the biggest results. So you can ignore
90% of the information you are being
pushed online that really doesn't have
any impact at all. Just want to start
off by confirming the three problems
that you want to fix. The first one was
coming up with new ideas. The second was
you've lost clarity or feeling of who
you are talking to, which is making
everything else a bit harder. And then
the third one was kind of like upload
tactics. What do you put in a
description? When do you upload? Sound
good?
>> Exactly. Exactly. That's spot on. It
>> the first thing we want to do, right, is
just look at two things. How YouTube
works to grow a business and then how
YouTube works to grow a channel because
we need to understand that to then work
out the exact kind of strategy I'm going
to give you. So, it's kind of basic
stuff, but people always confuse this.
So, in terms of growing a business, it's
actually very simple. We want to make
videos that find new people. Then, we
want to get them to keep coming back to
the channel because if we can get them
to come back to the channel over and
over again, they warm up. And then, we
just want to offer them something. But
the secret to this all really is let's
say this little blob is you on the left
will right you put out a video and then
we want someone new to find it and the
first day they find it. We really want
them to binge like five right so they're
like this guy's perfect and then you
release your next video the next week
they watch it and then they watch
another one and then the same week after
week and over the course of a month you
basically get them to watch 20 pieces of
content. If you can do that, 20 is not a
magic number. It's just an example.
You're gonna get really red-hot leads,
right? People who like you, fans. So,
the secret to growing a business on
YouTube is basically bringing people
back more than it is necessarily growing
it. All right? There's no point just
growing it and not bringing people back.
It doesn't work. So, that's the basics
of that. Now, let's just look at how
YouTube works. And basically, it's all
down to something called viewer
satisfaction. So, the way I like to look
at it is it's like a a game, right? It's
just scoring your content to see if it
should push it more. And if you get a
high score, it's going to give it more
impressions. So, we want watch time. The
basic idea is if people watch a video
for longer, it's a sign that it's good
and it matches the expectations of what
they clicked on and you've not
clickbaited them. So, YouTube might give
you more impressions if you've got
strong watch time. Then there's
click-through rate. So, it's like if
lots of people are clicking, when
YouTube pushes, it's a sign that they're
interested in it. So, it'll push it to
more people. Then there's shares. So,
normally people talk about this one, but
let's say you make a video that's so
good
>> and someone watches it and they share
that link. That's bringing people to
YouTube. It's more ad revenue. The
session time. So, basically, if people
binge 10 videos, they're spending a very
long session watching your content.
YouTube will like that. Then there's
likes, returning viewers. So, when you
actually keep bringing people back over
and over again, that's good. Comments
and subscribers. So, let's imagine
you've posted a video, Will, and it's
this one. You put it out and YouTube
instantly tests it with a small
audience. You see that first 98, right?
And it goes, if this gets a good score,
I'm going to push it to a slightly
large, you know, slightly larger
audience. And it tests it again and it
comes to the second audience and it gets
a 98. So it goes, oh, I'm going to push
it to the even larger audience and it'll
just keep doing this, right? And then
videos blow up when they're getting
pushed mass. So the the problem is if
you don't score well, what can happen is
you put your video out and it pushes it
to a little small test group and they're
your fans and they're like, "What's
great, I love him." And then they go
slightly wider and that group doesn't
vibe with it. It then won't push it any
wider. So this is why you see videos
take off really quick and then slam to a
hole. It's because it it took with one
audience, not the widest one. That's the
scoring system. But it gets a little bit
more complex because we also have this
thing called watch history. So watch
history is very important because if
Homozi is who your viewers are watching
and you post a video on say pricing and
he posts one on pricing, YouTube's not
just going let's push Will because we
like Will and he's got a 98. They're
going, "What else do my audience like?"
Right? So you might put a video out on
pricing and then Hozi gets a 10,000
score, then a 13,000, then a 15. So
YouTube's not going to push you. It's
going to go, "Cool, let's take all of
Will's impressions and give them to
Homozy because that piece of content is
winning." So YouTube in itself is not a
very level playing field. So what we
want to do is especially in the business
niche is work out how can we get to the
top of the pile so that we steal
everyone else's impressions and score
high. And the way that we do this and
this is what you did very well when you
came to YouTube but it's lost the way a
little bit now is you differentiate and
you own a space. That's basically what
I'm going to show you how to do today
and also how to get you back on track
with who you're targeting. So what we
want for you is let's just say you
become the pricing guy. And I'm not
saying do that. We want you so that when
any other person comes and makes a video
about pricing, YouTube goes, "This isn't
as good as Will. Keep giving Will the
impressions." And the way that we do
that is by owning a space. So there's
three examples of people right now who
are owning a space on YouTube and making
a huge amount of money because of it. So
do you know, have you seen Jeremy Hayes
guy on? So, this is a really weird way.
Uh, it's like an unspoken truth about
how YouTube works. 10 people in the same
week told me to watch this guy. I knew
who he was. I knew what he stood for. I
knew how he promoted in his content. I
knew the exact avatar he wanted before I
even watched a video because he very
clearly just went, "I want people making
100K. I'm going to get you to a
million." And in his videos, he's like,
"If you're not doing 100K a month, don't
watch this." He is very slowly becoming
the 100 to a million guy and that's what
he's doing, right? He's carving out a
space. Then we got Jason who is you
probably recognize him, right? Webinars.
So like he's been doing webinars for
years. He helped Homoszi. You hear about
Jason almost before you find his
channel. He's the webinar guy. And then
um Daniel here on the right. Have you
seen Daniel recently?
>> Yes, I have. Yeah.
>> Yeah. So Daniel's been doing content for
years. is he stripped back his channel.
He just makes these simple videos, but
he did $3 million in a month. And now
you're seeing his views go up, right?
And now he's owning that space where
he's the guy who did three million in a
month for an agency. So the cool thing
about when you own a space is the dollar
per view, especially for someone like
you, shoots up because Jeremy Haynes
doesn't need 10,000 views. He'd make
less money. He needs 3,000 people who
can all give him $10,000. It's way more
profitable, right? So this is the best
way, I think, for most businesses. The
other way is you go up against these
guys. This is the mass market and dollar
per view crashes because you can get a
million views and no one's even started
a business yet and all they have is $49.
But it still works the same, right? So
you see Cody, Cody owns the space of
buying boring businesses and she talks
to like everyday people. She's talking
to beginners. Mosi basically just owns
the business space like the whole niche.
He's the top dog. Dan Martell is
basically buying back your time. That
was his book. That's what he's known
for. and he owns the sort of big problem
of time and scaling. So
your problem was you stopped owning a
space. You actually had all of the
things that I just told you where I
heard about you before I saw your
channel. Someone said to me, "Have you
heard have you seen that guy who sold
his info business?" And I was like,
"What? Those don't ever sell." And they
like, "Yeah, yeah, yeah, check it out.
He made a video." Right? This is like
the same thing as Jeremy Hayes. It's
about three people says your name in the
same week. So, I was brought in by the
network, not even by YouTube, to
discover you, which is pretty cool. So,
your videos that you were making back
then that were doing really well, how I
made 16 million, how to make 100k a
month, I just sold my private equity,
right? So, you you actually carved out
this space of authentic content that was
designed for avatar earning more. Uh,
that was kind of simple and easy to
understand, but at the time, Norm Norm
was doing it. Was it literally just you?
But then the problem we have is you knew
what you were doing before because you
understand business. But the direction
you went in recently was top left and
the top middle. That's kind of like
where I would have stayed. Then you've
strayed over into my niche. Copy this
video, it'll blow up your business,
which is not you, right? Then we've got
the how to make money so fast it feels
illegal, which is basically a homoszy
title. Think about the one in the top
middle with the the um diagrams. like
that viewer ain't going to watch and
come back to the one of you on the
money. And then we've got the barley one
and then we've got another one which is
kind of like general. So you moved away
and this probably happened because you
thought I want to go broader or I wanted
to target more of a beginner. But the
problem with YouTube is often when you
do that it can turn off the audience
that you built. So you might find that
the 100k a monthers are like I don't
need this channel anymore. He's going in
a different direction. And then you
spill over into the mass market and then
suddenly the competition absolutely
explodes and we're up against Mosi which
apart from Mr. Beast he's the next
person you don't want to be up against.
Right.
So in terms of the secret to success is
bringing people back and all that's
happened is you started to go a little a
drift from what brought people back. So
how do we get you back on track? That's
the question.
Before we get into that, any questions
on what I've just said?
>> Makes complete sense and this is exactly
what's been on my mind. And honestly,
you're completely right because we've
solved the business side and my my
attitude was I'll go broader. I'll get
more views. That will lead to more calls
and sales. But I think I think I think
like you've just said that was simply
wrong.
>> Yeah. I mean, the thing is it always
feels like more is going to get us more.
Let's have a look at how we can get you
back on track and how I would kind of
just restrategize. So the first thing
you need to do and there's only really
three things that matter on YouTube,
especially for someone in your position,
right? And it's understanding your
avatar. So for the viewers, avatar is
just like your perfect buyer. Who are
they? For years, people were like come
up with this huge spreadsheet and like
everything about you about them and get
very granular on like what do they have
for breakfast and like what's their
favorite day of the week and I just
found it really overwhelming. So for me,
I just go, what's the first thing they
think about when they wake up? What's
the problem on their mind? And this is
literally what blew up my YouTube
channel because I made a video called
waking up with no new YouTube
subscribers. Try this. They got a half a
million views. So you've got three
avatars. 0 to 10k, 10 to 100, and 100k
plus a month. Is that right?
>> Yeah. Yeah, that's that's that's right.
>> And I know because you know business,
you're going to know your avatars very
well. But I just made up three problems
for each. So the 0 to 10k a monthers,
they're going, I don't know if business
is even going to work for me. You know,
they don't believe in themselves.
They're going, I can't find any clients.
And they're going, I don't have enough
time to do this around my job.
>> Does that sound fair?
>> 100%, mate.
>> Yeah. And then we got the 10 to 100k a
month and they're going, I need more
leads. So they got some in. Yeah. My
clients are annoying me. So they've got
bottlenecks in the way they're
delivering. They're still not like pros
at delivery. And then they're still
going, I don't have enough time. because
they're doing too much stuff. And then
we got the 100k a monthers who are
going, I can't scale. They've got an
amazing base, but they're like, how do I
get to three, 500k? The team's a
nightmare, and I don't have enough time.
So, if we look at those, I think you
understand your avatars well. I don't
think that's a problem for you.
>> The problem comes in when we have to
play the YouTube game, right, where we
give them what they want over and over
again so they return. And I think the
simplest way to think about YouTube is
this guy in my program called Oliver.
and he's just been watching all the
strategy stuff and he was like, "Ed, it
just sounds like if a video gets
traction, just make your next video so
it's only really interesting to the
people who discovered the last one." And
I was like, "Yeah, that's literally all
you do. It's just repeat what worked."
So, we've got your 0 to 10k a monthers
here, and you made a video for them, how
to make 10k a month part-time, which is
exactly the sort of video you should
make for those people. But then the 10
to 100k a monthers, you've got the 100k
a month first and stuff. Perfect video
for them. And then the 100k a month
first, you've got how to get to 16
million. So like you're very good at
giving these three avatars, but the
people who want the 16 million aren't
going to watch the 10k, right? And the
100k a month is not going to. So that
that's the problem we've got. So that's
the main gap. We just need to give them
what they want. And then the next thing
you need to do in this niche, which is
the secret source, is to be new. So you
were very, very good at being new. there
there really wasn't any kind of strip
back non nonsense simple business advice
without tons of editing when you started
making video like it was incredibly
different and
>> your story was different. So new is
powerful because now anyone can knock up
a script and they do it all the time
like people take my scripts they run it
through AI and then I see my exact words
back at me on multiple YouTube growth
advice channels at the moment. It's
going to happen to you too. So finding
the new way to say something when
everyone else is repeating the same
thing because they're not actually
experts is very powerful. It's a hook.
It makes you stick out. It makes you
differentiate. And everyone has heard
the same thing a million times before
and it didn't work for them. So they
want new, which is exactly the same as
copyright. So this is when you were new.
What we want to do is get back to that.
So I've got a little system that's going
to help you be new. Now this is an
example. I've laid out a strategy and
some video ideas for you. I'm not saying
do this. We're just we're just making
this up. So the the first step of being
new is what is your unique backstory?
And I know your unique backstory, right?
So hated running a big team, sold my
info business. I then just went on
YouTube and started giving free advice,
which almost seemed like you did it
because you didn't have anything else to
do. It never I don't know when I met
you, it never sounded like you had a
plan. You just did it because it was
like interesting.
It then blew up. Then you started making
millions from it consulting with almost
no team.
>> Is that accurate,
>> mate? that that is exactly accurate. And
that was the case when I sold the
business. I then had no team. I didn't
really have an offer and I was just
making the videos to fill my time
because I was bloody bored and I didn't
I I I didn't know what to even do. All
the views accidentally built another
massive business.
>> But it just goes to show the power of
your unique backstory because no one had
heard this before. You were the guy that
sold the business, but an info business.
So that's the first part and the thing
we're going to harness to keep making
you sound new. The next thing is what do
you believe to be true that others
don't. So I've seen your content and
I've seen certain things you've said but
I've made a rough estimate and it's
scaling is dumb and everyone who does it
hates their life. Grow an unscalable
business that makes money with less
people and less of your time. Does that
sound fair?
>> Very much so. It's becoming more common.
I'm seeing YouTube videos every other
week of people turning their business
off when they've scaled it to to start
again in this model. So 100%.
>> The third thing is we want to work out
who is your enemy and it's it's basic an
enemy is basically you you you take that
and you make it your enemy, right? So
it's it's the thing that you are going
to stand against. So I know you don't
think people should sell like a low
ticket course necessarily because
there's a better way to do it. Uh I I
think the enemy you have is people who
tell you to build massive offers of huge
teams and scale it out of control and
scaling for the sake of it. So once we
have your backstory, what you believe to
be true, and who is your enemy, we can
then make you incredibly unique amongst
everyone else. And I usually get people
to just do a very simple what I call
positioning statement. So I wrote one
for you. Um I help businesses earn more
without courses, scaling, or building
big teams. Very simple. Sound good?
>> Does indeed, mate. Yeah.
>> All right. So then once we've got that,
that basically is your back is is a bit
of your backstory. It's all the things
you do and don't like, we got to decide
quickly which avatar are we now going to
do this for. Now I just picked one for
the sake of this exercise. We're going
to go for the 10 to 100k people on the
channel. Uh you can do whatever you
want, Will, but we're just going to use
this as an example to show you. And then
what we're going to do is we're going to
take that and I'm going to start
ideating videos that are going to make
you new, unique, and very original.
So what I did was I audited your channel
and I just went through and I was like
what are the videos that people really
liked and they're always the same case
studies. So like it was the story about
you and how you'd done something with
proof and then like personal stories
with some details in it of how to do it
and but then also you had these other
videos like whiteboard ones that were
short processes clear actionable step by
steps
>> that were basically like helping people
hit a financial goal and those videos
always got more views
>> than others. And I don't know if you can
see on screen right now what we've got
here, but if we look at your top the the
top left on the on the top row, the
second one across, there's your 16
million a year, there's your helping
Mike first and do a very specific
amount, making 10K a month, very
specific. All of your best performing
videos have super specific titles and
results, right? So it's either here's
how someone else made money, here's how
I made money, and here's how to do it.
And that's what people love for you. So
what people hated and basically what we
do is we go and look at the videos that
didn't perform is vague or overhyped
income claims without real proof or
steps titles promising quick riches
without actionable content. Content that
feels repetitive or lacks clear
step-by-step guidance. Right? So if we
look at the recent ones that where you
lost your direction a bit being a
student makes you rich. There's no
actionable stuff. How to make money so
fast is legal. It's vague. Right? We
know that you people love your specific
stuff. And then how I get people to send
me large sums of money. If you put like
how I get people to send me 100k a
month, that would have got clicks
because it's way more specific and in
line with your audience really likes
about you. So what I did was and I've
built you an idea. All right. So when
we're coming up with an idea for a
video, I come up with three titles and
three thumbnail variations. So based on
your backstory, based on the things that
we've been through, one title could be
the new way to make 100K a month in
2026. and we just have you with don't
build a team in the front which creates
what's known as cognitive dissonance.
That's when you tell people to do the
thing they've been told to do and they
go why shouldn't I do it? Then we just
have you in front of the whiteboard. And
the thing about a whiteboard video is
these perform very well because when you
see that you only click on it because
you want a whiteboard video. What can
happen is people click on these and
their expectations are instantly
matched. So you get longer watch time
and that's why whiteboard videos do so
well. And then you got your bottom one.
you would just lay out the new way to
make 100k a month in 2026. Same strategy
for the other titles. We've got step by
step, how I made 100k a month without
selling courses, without whatever the
heck is your enemy. And then the other
one is how I'd make 100k a month ASAP as
a oneperson business. Now, these words
without selling courses as a one person
business, these are things we test, but
all I've done is go to your channel and
take all of your titles that already
performed and just change the words on
them slightly. And then I took your
thumbnails that I've already performed
and changed them. And if you look at my
channel, that's all I do. So this calls
out the avatar, attacks the enemy, feels
kind of new because you've got the new
spin on it. And what we do, I've written
you an intro, right? Where I'm going to
show you how to bring the thing that
makes you new and unique into it. And
it's this.
>> Would you still want to earn 100K a
month if you knew you'd hate your life?
I sold my last business for 10 million
because it made me depressed. I followed
all the usual advice of build a big
team, post on social media, and pump
money into ads. But even when you make
millions, all the people I know doing it
this way hate it. So, in this video, I'm
going to show you step by step how I
went from zero to 100k a month as a
oneperson business after that sale by
going against everything you've been
told to do so you can actually enjoy
your business, too. It's a little long.
We could probably cut the last line, but
first line, we have a hook, and the
hook's calling out your avatar. Second
line instantly drops in credibility and
sets up an interesting problem. Third
line introduces your enemy. And what the
cool thing about introducing your enemy
is all of the people who have fed up
with the same old advice are going to be
like, I knew there was another way. I'm
going to listen to this guy. Then you
have the setup, which is so in this
video, I'm going to show you step by
step, which basically just says you're
going to tell him what the title's
about. And then the last line, we could
probably cut. And that's literally it.
>> Dude, brilliant.
>> M I feel this advice. I just feel
reinvigorated and and and and refreshed
and just clear again, you know? I
haven't had that clarity for for quite a
while. So, it feels great. I feel like I
just want to go and make make all the
videos now.
>> I'd get your whiteboard back out and
just start drawing things out.
>> I'm going to I'm going to, mate.
>> Okay. So, there's no questions on that.
Nice and clear.
>> Yeah, 100%.
>> Amazing. I did a good job then. All
right. And that brings us on to the
third problem or question you had, which
is upload tricks. So, you might have
some specific questions, but I think one
of them you asked was how often do you
upload?
>> So, my answer to that is post as often
as you can make something feel new in a
way that appeals to your avatar, can get
clicks, and then makes sophisticated
information feel simple. So,
that's where I put all the work into a
video. So, my job is how do I make this
sound unique, right? So, that's where
the time goes. That that's your answer.
How often do you think you could make
videos that focus on those and tick off
all those things?
>> I know that one a week I can make one
great video that I'm truly happy with
that will really help people. Any more
than that and my brain gets a bit
scattered. The quality goes down.
>> Yeah. So, YouTube's weird. The more you
rush it, the harder it gets, the more
pressure you get on yourself and the
worse your content is. So, one a week is
generally what I tell people to do
because of that. Uh, did you ask what
time to post? I get asked this a lot.
>> Yeah, I did. Yeah.
>> All right. Where are all your clients?
Generally,
>> mainly America and England.
>> Darkest for longest.
>> Yeah,
>> you don't even need that.
>> I just look and go. Most my clients in
America, many on the West Coast, so I
need to make sure they're awake and I
need to make sure the UK's awake. So, I
post at 6 p.m. Dubai time. That's it.
>> Yeah. Spot on.
>> The next thing was description, like
what to do with it. And
>> all I ever do is put my work with me
link. I tried so many calls to action
and that one just worked better than
anything else. It doesn't say it's a
program. It doesn't set up anything. It
just says work with me.
>> Get Rev track. That's my software. And
then my lead magnet. So for you it might
be work with me book a lead magnet,
right? Whatever you've got, but that's
all we need. You can put in chapters and
stuff if you want, but it's not really
critical. Otherwise, we don't need
keywords. We don't need anything anymore
because YouTube reads the transcript.
Then pin comments. Same thing. I just
paste it back in. That's literally it.
just leave it. You don't need to do
anything else. But really, the only
tricks that matter are understanding
your avatar, differentiating, and making
things feel new. And if you look at
pretty much every creator in the
business niche that has ever blown up,
that's all they did. All right. Any
other questions you want to throw at me?
>> The the biggest lesson that I've learned
is speak to one avatar
because then everything else gets
easier. It's kind of you can bring all
of your ideas into a more digestible
place where you can think of good titles
and good videos when you bring it back
to that one key avatar. Just one more
question for you, man, is really on that
topic of thinking of ideas and
specifically thinking of titles. Is
there anywhere that you would look for
for other ideas or would you keep it
your own ideas like I have historically?
>> First place I go, I don't go to anyone's
channel. I go to my channel and like
what works on my channel because
the title that brought the viewers to
your channel is the title that will
bring them back, right?
>> But also if if you go and use one of
Homozy's titles, it won't work because
his title is designed for a different
audience.
>> Yeah. Well, dude, that that answers the
question entirely. And I've worked with
four YouTube consultants now. All of
them told me to go and copy what works.
You're the first person to say copy what
what works from yourself. For the first
time in many many months, I finally feel
clear and more importantly, I feel
excited to to go and make videos again.
100%. And that's all thanks to you,
mate. So So much appreciated.